# Active Directory Setup
*by Asher Wayde*

## Setting up the Windows Server
To set up an active directory, I first decided to set up a windows server. This is something that I needed to do for more reasons than just making an active directory server, as making network drives is something that I knew how to do fairly easily from a Windows server. So I downloaded an installer for windows server 2019 standard from microsoft, put on a usb drive with Rufus, and started installing the server. I installed it on one of the Lenovo computers that Netizen Gave us. It became The Silver Window.

### Detour for setting up the network drives
To set up the network drives you need to install the file and storage services add on to windows server. To do that, I went into server manager, clicked add a role, and installed file and storage services, and the storage quotas. On a server like this you want to install quotas to make sure that you don't accidentally fill up the hard drive with things on the network drive. A drive "quota" means that you can only fill up the drive to so much amount per either drive or user, It's very usefull.  
After Installing them I went to setting up the network drive, which you do in the tab it adds to server manager for the file services. You need to add a share, and then add the users who have access for the share, which in this case would be everyone on this small network for now. After following through the wizard the silver storage was created.  
But that's a detour from what the real important thing is, mainly setting up an AD server.

## Setting up the AD DS Server
Setting up the AD DS server was more complicated than I thought. I started by installing to many roles, so I had to uninstall the AD cert authority. But once every role except the AD DS Server. To set that up I promoted the server to a primary domain controller. Which I was able to do, but after doing this, and setting up the new domain silveretown.net as a new AD DS, I couldn't connect anything to it. At that point we were out of time. The next day when I came back in to fix it, I found that to bind properly to an AD DS the domain controller, which is our windows server (The Silver Window) must also be the DNS server for the windows computers. We currently use a Pi-Hole DNS and this is something that I didn't want to change. After some digging I found that you could make the windows server the primary DNS, and then the Pi-Hole as the upstream DNS for anything that's not local, so that's what I did. The windows server did need the extra role of DNS, so I installed that quickly.  
After all of that, I finally was able to join the computers to the silveretown.net domain, using the domain account of Owner that the server had set up on it.  
We still need to set up any of the OUs or the Standard User accounts and many other things, but they are all connected. Group Policy is something that we could also add to the AD. Hovever those are add-ons to the AD server.  
I connected one of our win10 and win11 machines to make sure they connected fine, and then John connected the rest of the windows computers to the AD, which is enough for now.